A comprehensive textbook on numerical analysis. Contains a lot of useful
information, adopts a theoretical approach with lot of numerical examples.
A easy readable textbook from the creator of MATLAB. In my opinion a must
read. Also, access the textbook website to find a lot of additional resources,
including MATLAB files and GUI's.
An excellent and comprehensive resource on numerical algorithms and their
implementation in C++.
Excellent textbook with emphasis on Scientific Computing (which is closely
related to Numerical Analysis). This textbook is a core textbook used in many
universities worldwide for bachelor and master degree students, and also for
PhD students.
This is a fast-paced course. This course gives an in-depth introduction to the
basic areas of numerical analysis.

The main objective will be to have a clear understanding of the ideas and
techniques underlying the numerical and optimization methods, results, and
algorithms that will be presented, where error analysis plays an important
role. You will then be able to use this knowledge to analyze the numerical
methods and algorithms that you will encounter, and also to program them
effectively on a computer. This knowledge will be useful in your future not
only to solve problems with a numerical component, but also to develop
numerical algorithms of your own.

**Topics to be covered:**

  1. Computer representation of numbers. Errors: types, sources, propagation.
  2. Solution of nonlinear equations. Root finding.
  3. Interpolation by polynomials and spline functions.
  4. Approximation of functions.
  5. Numerical integration and differentiation.
  6. Matrix computations and systems of linear equations.
  7. Numerical methods for ODE.
  8. Optimization of functions of several variables.
  9. Numerical methods for optimization.

The final grade for this class will be formed as follows:

  * 30% will be class activities such as homework, tests/quizzes, bonus points, and 3 projects.
  * 30% will be the first intermediate exam (covering chapters 1-4)
  * 40% will be the final exam (covering chapters 5-9)

TESTS/QUIZZES: You will have periodic online or in-class tests. Stay tuned.

BONUS POINTS: will be given for participating in online class activities such
as surveys, feedback, forum posts, submitting different than mine solutions to
homework problems.

PROJECTS: 3 Projects will be given. You will have to submit a written report.

HOMEWORK: will be given usually for each chapter, submitted through course
page and graded. Please do your homework, since your exams will be based on
problems from your homework, and doing homework mean preparation for your
exams.

EXAMS: Exams will be posted at a specified time on this page or held in class,
depending on the current pandemic status. You will be allowed to use copies of
lecture slides. You will have 2-3 hours to solve the problems and then submit
them to me. More details will follow before the scheduled examinations.

Here are some advice to follow if you want to get a passing grade for this
class:

  1. Visit the course page on a daily basis. I recommend to do it twice (morning and evening).
  2. Complete all the surveys and other online activities you will be asked to do. For example, quizzes will have a limited time frame that will be available. 
  3. Read all lectures and recommended reading (even if it is not mandatory). Ask questions. This can be done through forums or require a chat session and I will organize it.
  4. Do the homework. 
  5. Do the homework by yourself. 
  6. After your are done with the homework, study the Answers to the homework as a way to check if you did it correctly/completely. Self-assessment is very important, especially in online learning.
  7. Spent at least 2 hours per day studying for this course. 
  8. Do the projects and make sure they are submitted at deadline.
  9. Browse the literature I suggested and read even more than it is given in the lectures. There is no such thing as enough reading.
  10. Ask questions!
  11. DO NOT CHEAT! There are many ways to verify if you cheated or not. Remember, both person who cheated and person who helped the cheater will be sanctioned.
  12. You can and should help your colleagues by informing them on the updates and [announcements](https://else.fcim.utm.md/mod/forum/view.php?id=31332 "Announcements") made on this page, explaining to them the class material and solutions to homework problems. But, you must not give them the answers to quizzes, exams, or doing their projects.

The mandatory readings are the lecture slides and additional pdf files given
in every chapter. The slides are based on textbook: **Elementary Numerical
Analysis,** by Weimin Han and Kendall Atkinson, my professors from The
University of Iowa.

Also, I recommend to consult the bibliography given below.
